Enter.
Lieutenant Shaw reporting
as ordered. sir.
At ease.
I believe that's gonna
stick around awhile.
You know. this island is
lousy with sailors. Marines.
You couldn't pick a fight with one
of them instead of two of our own?
Sometimes the fight
picks you. sir.
What was the fight even about?
I guess I just can't
abide bullies. sir.
You know. your father threw
a few punches in his day.
Some of them at me.
What do you think
he'd make of you now?
I don't know. sir.
Maybe we could sober
him up and ask him.
All right.
Well. some orders
have come through.
Security escort for
a Japanese scientist.
Sorry. sir. A
Japanese scientist?
This isn't a milk
run. Lieutenant.
We already lost a man on
one of these escort missions
a couple of months back.
You will protect. observe. and
report when and if able. Understood?
Understood. sir.
Then that is all. Lieutenant.
Dismissed.
Excuse me. sir. you don't
happen to be Dr. Miura. would...
Miura?
Sorry.
I think you're here for me.
Wish I could say I was. but
I'm here on army business.
Maybe we can get a drink
on my way out. huh?
Wait a minute.
They told me they were
sending a military escort.
and you're the only
one here in uniform.
I'm supposed to
meet a Dr. Miura.
I'm Keiko Miura.
- You're... Keiko. nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you.
You must be his daughter?
Or...
I'm sorry. I think there's a little
miscommunication happening here.
- Let's start over.
- Yes. why don't we?
- Okay.
- You are...
I am Lieutenant Leland Lafayette
Shaw III. but you can call me Lee.
I'm Keiko Miura. and you
may call me Dr. Miura.
You know. these things aren't
supposed to go that fast.
Would you like me to drive?
Why?
Am I making you nervous?
Nope. But...
I've been assigned to you
as your military escort.
This is an army jeep and
I'm. you know. the army.
I've been driving up and
down these roads for weeks.
I know the way.
Okay then.
I'm starting to get the feeling you
don't really want me around here.
Aren't you even curious
why you're here?
Very much so.
A WB-29 on a routine
weather mission
scooped up some airborne
radioisotopes over the Philippine Sea.
That's pretty far south for a
Russian bomb test. They don't...
That's because it's
not the Russians.
Well. it's not
us. So. who is it?
Well. they were the wrong
isotopes for bomb fallout.
And meteorological data shows
they likely originated here.
The Philippines?
That's gotta be a mistake.
That's what I'm
here to find out.
Okay.
We should get to work.
Hit the gas. Doc.
Every day the
reading diminishes.
Soon it'll be entirely gone.
and the trail will be lost.
Uh-huh. Got that. Double-time.
Your English is very good.
It came in handy when I did my
postgraduate work at Berkeley.
It's impressive.
But doesn't that make you
a little overqualified
for this snipe hunt?
This what?
Wild-goose chase.
Come on. Doc. Don't you think
if those readings were legit.
Washington would've sent half
the eggheads at Los Alamos
to check it out?
Not a woman. Certainly
not a Japanese woman.
You got that right. Yeah.
You want me to lie and pretend
that's not the way things are?
You're telling me you
didn't take one look at me
and make a snap judgment about
who I am the second we met?
It's not the same. Leland
Lafayette Shaw III.
Suppose it's not.
Do you hear that?
Lieutenant?
Hey.
Don't move.
Lieutenant.
- Who are you? Who are you?
- Don't shoot.
I'm American. Navy vet.
And what are you doing here. American
Navy vet. huh? You filming us?
Why? You guys doing
something film worthy?
- I asked you a question.
- I'm just asking a question back.
Well. I got the gun. swab.
so who are you and what
are you doing here?
- Lieutenant.
- My name's William Randa.
Okay. Lieutenant Shaw?
Look. I promise I won't shoot
you if you don't shoot me.
Deal?
All right.
All right?
Still haven't answered my
question. What are you doing here?
Well. you could say I'm
on a hunting expedition.
I'm a cryptozoologist.
- You're a cryptozoo... What?
- He studies animals that don't exist.
Yeah.
Atmospheric sampler?
Spectrometer?
- Hey. is this a radiation monitor here?
- Hey.
- Easy.
- Don't touch that.
Sorry. I just... I've
never seen one before.
Just wanted to check it out.
'Cause it seems like maybe we're
out here hunting for the same thing.
And what's that. Mr. Randa?
The truth.
Catey. where have you been?
I'm sorry. I...
I've been calling
and calling you.
Mom. I'm fine. I'm coming home.
Already? What did you find out?
It doesn't have
anything to do with us.
What does that mean? What
does it have to do...
What did it always have
to do with. Mom? Him.
Catey.
- We'll talk when I get home. okay?
- Don't do this.
- Love you. Bye.
- Catey. do not...
American?
Excuse me?
Sorry. I didn't mean
to eavesdrop. I just...
I overheard your accent.
Sometimes this place can make you feel
like you're stranded on another planet.
Glad I could help.
- Where are you heading?
- Look. I don't mean to be rude.
but I've made all the new friends
I can handle for one day. thanks.
Yeah. Nah. nah. Hey.
I totally get it.
This young woman abroad
runs into a strange man
at the train station.
And next thing you know. you're
buried alive in a coffin somewhere.
I can't imagine
that that helped.
Hey. Wait. Look.
Hey. I'm harmless.
My name's Tim.
They don't come much more
harmless than the "Tim" variety.
Have a nice night. Tim.
I need to talk to
you about the files.
I don't...
What files?
I work for Monarch.
You're not in trouble.
Not yet.
Those files belong to us.
and they are more important
than you could possibly imagine.
I need to make a call.
Okay. Let's make a call.
All right. All right.
Make your call.
Speaker. please.
Sure.
Cate? Hello? Cate?
No.
I said you weren't in trouble.
"Yet". You said "yet."
Look. I swear we're
not gonna hurt you.
No. you can't do this.
- I can't let you see where we're going.
- No! You don't understand.
I can't breathe. I can't...
I can't...
Relax. You're gonna be
fine. Just breathe. okay?
- Let me out. Let me out!
- Calm down. Relax.
- Let me out!
- Relax. Calm down.
Hey!
Get her under control. man.
Let me out!
What?
Why aren't you
answering my texts?
When's the last time I
answered one of your texts?
I don't know... I thought...
You thought?
You thought that because
of your crazy family drama
that what happened between
us is ancient history?
What do you want from me?
I found this in my
father's office.
I do audio. not home movies.
I told you I was sorry.
Apology accepted.
I'm sorry too.
I grabbed onto you to
keep my head above water.
and you didn't wanna
drown. I get it.
You should go home now.
Wait. wait. wait.
I want those old
computer files we found.
Why?
Because they're mine. What
difference does it make to you?
I'm busy.
Come back tomorrow.
She sounded French.
You said they were American.
The man was.
Tim?
Do you have some identification?
I lost my bag when I ran away.
My passport...
my phone. all my money.
And you're sure this
wasn't some kind of...
misunderstanding?
What?
Tourists come here to enjoy
what Tokyo has to offer.
The nightlife. Some karaoke.
But...
it's easy to overindulge.
You think I'm drunk?
I was almost kidnapped!
If you feel you are in danger...
I would recommend you
contact the American Embassy.
Wait here.
I will get you the address.
I'm home.
Welcome back.
Have you had dinner?
I'm not hungry.
You haven't?
I was going to
warm up the curry.
What's this?
His life was not easy. you know.
He lost so much
when he was young.
You're defending him?
Aren't you angry?
You're angry. Kentaro.
Do you feel better?
What are you doing?
Now I'm angry too.
Join me. Kentaro.
Seriously?!
Throw it!
More.
Here.
Now we both feel better. right?
A little.
I'll warm up the curry.
So. you guys are following
the radiation. aren't you?
And how do you know about that?
Well. I know you're not
gonna find what's out there
following a Geiger counter.
What should we be
following. Mr. Randa?
Just Billy.
I think you should be following
the stories. Folklore. Legends.
You know. the people of these
mountains. they have an oral tradition
about a dragon that carves a
path of fire across the sky.
Or maybe a path of
ionizing radiation.
So. you're hunting dragons.
I told you. I'm
looking for the truth.
That's great. But
we got work to do.
so it's time for you
to hit the trail. bud.
Wait a minute. Lieutenant.
I don't think it's such a bad
idea for Mr. Randa to join us.
I think it's a terrible idea.
You're not here to think
for me. Lieutenant.
Look at him. Smell him.
He's probably been lost
out here for weeks.
Hey. hey. I know
exactly where I am. pal.
- Do you?
- Yes.
No. Look. I am here at the behest
of the US Army. and my orders are...
Your orders are to provide me with
whatever assistance I require.
My orders are to provide you
with operational security.
and I cannot do that with our new friend.
Billy the jungle hermit. hanging around.
Wow.
Fine. Just go then.
Don't tempt me. Doc.
I didn't ask for you.
I don't need you and
I don't want you.
So. you are relieved of
any responsibility for me.
Dismissed.
I'll send someone
back with the jeep.
Shall we go?
So. have you ever seen a dragon?
Once.
Well. maybe. It's kind of
why I started doing this.
Trying to prove I'm not crazy.
You think I'm crazy?
I don't even know you.
That's true.
Do you often follow strange
men into the jungle?
This is my second time today.
We call 'em MUTO's.
For Massive Unidentified
Terrestrial Organisms.
I came up with that.
Terrestrial. So. you don't
think they're space aliens?
You do think I'm crazy.
I'm a scientist.
I believe what the evidence
tells me to be true.
Okay.
Everyone around here tells
some version of the same story.
- Okay.
- Lights in the sky.
And whatever's making them
has been tracing the same path
over and over and over
again. going back centuries.
- Like comets.
- No. More like migrating birds.
Hold on.
I have to show you something.
These are the tracks
of the radiation readings from
our surveillance aircraft.
See this?
Incredible.
- This way. This way. Come on.
- Okay.
Where are we going?
We're following the map.
We're almost there.
Almost where?
What is it?
What is that?
The Lawton.
I don't know.
You wanna take a look
and see what's on these.
I have no idea if
they're any good but...
You do it.
Hiroshi was eighteen when
his father died in Vietnam.
His Uncle Lee was the
only family he had left.
If they were so close. why
didn't Dad ever mention him?
I think something
happened between them.
He didn't like to talk about
some parts of his life.
Is he still alive?
Oh. I don't know.
This would have been
a long time ago.
Sorry.
"CALL ME! IT'S IMPORTANT!"
I'll get it.
Thank you.
Good Evening.
Do you speak English?
Yes.
That's great. actually.
That makes this much
easier. for me anyway.
May we come in?
- No. Who are you?
- It's official business.
We're with a special
government task force.
- Which government?
- You know what?
We'll be in and out
before you even know it.
Wow. You have a lovely home.
Who are they?
What do you want?
I want Bill Randa's files.
No. you need to leave.
No. you need to hand
over those files.
Otherwise. you. your friends.
and your mother are gonna
be in a lot of trouble.
Kentaro...?
It's okay.
There's something
that your son stole.
He's going to have
to come with us.
Is it true?
Did you take
something of theirs?
They say I stole some files.
Enough.
Let's have it.
If he returns whatever he
took. will you leave him alone?
Of course.
If you have what they
are looking for...
you should give it to them.
Are you sure?
It must be very important.
I'll get it.
Amazing. Thank you.
Tea? You like tea?
Tea?
No. We're good. Thanks.
I hope my son hasn't
caused any trouble for you.
He's a good man now.
but when he was younger
there were so many problems!
- So much drinking!
- Hurry up!
I wanted him to
find a nice girl.
Someone to settle him down.
You are very attractive.
Are you single?
Oh. shit.
- Shit.
- Kentaro!
Open up!
Kentaro. run!
You know this ship?
USS Lawton.
Went down 200 miles
west of Pearl in 1943.
Pearl Harbor?
That's 5.000 miles from here.
Exactly.
Is this safe?
Mr. Randa.
You said you study
myths. stories.
I'm interested in why people
tell the stories they tell.
What inspired the storyteller.
What terrified 'em.
What is it?
Mr. Randa. Maybe we
should stick together...
Mr. Randa.
Billy.
You were on this ship.
Yeah.
Is this what you
were looking for?
Did you know it was here?
Did I know?
Let's say hoped.
Not very scientific.
I know we hit something
in the water that night.
We figured it was
a Japanese sub.
The whole ship went down
in less than three minutes.
Who else survived?
Only me.
Going to the back.
Okay.
Who are you? Jason Bourne?
You're from San Francisco.
You were there that day.
You don't have a bag packed.
ready to head for higher ground
when the tide starts rising?
Yeah. It's full of bottled water
and batteries. not extra passports.
- May.
- Hey. are you okay?
What is she doing here?
Hey. She's in this too.
Somebody's after those files.
Why don't we just give
'em what they want?
Maybe then they'll
leave all of us alone.
Okay. yeah. Good luck with that.
What's your plan? Just run?
Me? I have contacts. I
can get us fake passports.
I don't want a fake passport.
I want my real passport.
I haven't done anything wrong.
Okay. When have people in
power ever cared about...
Hold on.
I know where to go.
Trust me.
Come on.
- What is that?
- I don't know.
Looks organic.
Oh. God.
There are so many.
When did you say this ship sank?
Nine years ago.
I think I've seen everything
I need to in here.
Yeah.
That wasn't there before.
- This is fresh.
- Fresh what?
We'll find another
way outta here.
How did it get here?
Is there something in
here that's making it...
I don't know. Come on.
You're here to see the Colonel?
Yes. we are.
If he's still alive.
So. we can see the Colonel?
Colonel Shaw?
What's your name?
Kentaro.
Kentaro what?
Randa.
Oh. my God. You're
Hiroshi's boy.
And you?
I'm Cate Randa.
Course you are.
I didn't know Hiroshi
even had a daughter.
Well. I didn't
know he had a son.
Turns out he was good
at keeping secrets.
Not my drama. No relation.
- We wanted to ask you about our fa...
- Why don't we...
Yeah. Come on.
Let's get some air.
Come on.
If you guys could just kinda keep
your voices down. that'd be good.
Tell me. how'd you get here?
Rented a minivan.
That's good. But I mean.
how did you find me?
My mom.
- Emiko.
- Yes.
We found something
in my father's safe.
- Kentaro.
- What? He's my great uncle Lee.
What did you find in the safe?
Old computer files.
Bunch of crazy
shit. Monster shit.
Can you please. please
keep your voices down?
What's this all about? Why are you
here? And you gotta make it kinda quick.
We wanna find out what
happened to my father.
You tell me.
Right after G-Day. he said he
had someplace he needed to go.
Wouldn't tell us where.
but a week later we were
told the plane he was on
disappeared somewhere in Alaska.
Turns out he had a whole
secret life in Japan.
I came here to try
and figure it out.
but now we're being chased by
these Monarch people and...
"Disappeared"? As in. no body?
No death certificate?
- What are you saying?
- Hey.
Hey. what is this place?
This place is what Monarch
euphemistically refers to
as "secure asset management."
Right. So. you're
imprisoned here.
Okay. Well. we're leaving.
Yeah. you can try. but they're
just gonna keep following you
and following you and following you.
until they finally get what they want.
Or?
Well. that's up to you.
Now. you can choke down that
mountain of Monarch bullshit
about your father
disappearing without a trace.
Or we can get the hell
outta here right now
and find out what really
happened with your dad.
Now you got just about 60
seconds to make up your minds.
What's it gonna be?
Here. this way.
Are you sure?
I did two tours in
this tin can. Doc.
What is that?
- Let's keep it moving. Come on.
- Okay.
- Are you all right?
- Oh. Jesus Christ.
- Go back! Go!
- Oh. my God.
- Oh. my God!
- No.
Hang on!
It's leaving! Now's our chance!
- Push!
- I am pushing!
Come on!
Where'd it go?
Help!
Hurry!
What the hell is going on?
- Help! Help!
- Come on!
- Watch out!
- Holy shit!
Oh. my God!
Help me get him out!
Come on! Before it comes back!
Okay.
Here we go.
One. two. three.
It's too heavy.
I'm gonna stick this under.
and we're all gonna lift. okay?
Okay.
One. two. three.
Go! Get up! Billy! Hey. get up!
- Go!
- Okay.
Go!
Go. go. go!
Oh. my God.
It is a dragon.
It's incredible.